Jini Solutions S.R.L.                                           S. Saru
                                                             March 2023


             Functional Safety - Artificial Intelligence
                              (FSAI)

Abstract

   This document describes a fundamental approach for handling safety
   related aspects of artificial intelligent systems.  This approach
   relies heavily on organizing information using a data structure
   which in essence, shows which is the next action intended in a given
   context.  This data structure facilitates the analysis of complex
   decisions which carry safety responsibility.  This document provides
   principles and concepts for supporting the provision of argumented
   evidences towards demonstrating the safety of an AI system.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 Jini Solutions and the persons identified as the
   document authors.

License

   MIT License

Definitions

   Context: A set of relevant aspects.
   Intelligence: The ability to determine an intention in a context.
   Intention: The preffered course of action.
   Idea: The courses of action in a context, including the preferred
   course of action.
   Observer: a human or the AI system under consideration
   Safety: The presence of a reasonable level of risk.

Abbreviations

   AI : Artificial Intelligence
   AIUC : AI system Under Consideration
   TM: Thought Manifestation

Information Modelling using Thought Manifestations (TM)

   Given a set of relevant aspects, the Context, an intelligent
   observer has the ability of determining which is the best course of
   action, the Intention.  First the observer forms the context, next
   the context is analysed, and one or more courses of action can be
   deduced.  Finally, the observer selects its preferred course of 
   action, which is called the Intention.

Anatomy of a Thought Manifestation (TM)
   
   Each Thought Manifestation is comprised of two main parts:
   
      1. the Context, referencing all relevant aspects
      
      2. the possible courses of action, including an indication for
         the preferred course of action (the Intention)

Thought Manifestation (TM) process

   Thoughts are manifested in two main steps
   
      1. Context Assessment, during which the Context is formed and 
         its completeness is assessed
      
      2. Intention Deriving, during which the possible courses of action
         are determined, and the preferred one is selected

Specifying Thought Manifestations (TM)

   A supporting system is required to specify the intentions in
   contexts.  Each such entry, for a particular manifestation can be
   considered a requirement.

   
